README.md, before:

# grunt-compile-handlebars [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/patrickkettner/grunt-compile-handlebars.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/patrickkettner/grunt-compile-handlebars)

Compiles handlebar templates, outputs static HTML

## Getting Started
Install this grunt plugin next to your project's [grunt.js gruntfile][getting_started] with: `npm install grunt-compile-handlebars`

Then add this line to your project's `Gruntfile.js` gruntfile:

```javascript
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-compile-handlebars');
```

[grunt]: https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt
[getting_started]: https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md

## Documentation
### Who
patrick kettner - a web developer who consistently worked with large static data sets.

### What
grunt-compile-handlebars takes in a handlebars template (and optionally static pre and post html), runs a dataset over it, and outputs static html.

### Where
inside of a grunt task. I assume you know what gruntjs is, but if not - [gruntjs.com](http://gruntjs.com)

### When
You have ton of data that rarely changes that you want to template.

### How
There are a lot of different ways to input data, it accepts most any dynamic and static
input.
Heres a few of the ways you can use it

```javascript
'compile-handlebars': {
    allStatic: {
      preHTML: 'test/fixtures/pre-dev.html',
      postHTML: 'test/fixtures/post-dev.html',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/allStatic.html'
    },
    dynamicTemplate: {
      template: '<h1>{{salutation}}{{punctuation}} {{location}}</h1>',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicTemplate.html'
    },
    dynamicTemplateData: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: {
          "salutation": "Hallo",
          "punctuation": ",",
          "location": "Welt"
      },
      output: 'tmp/dynamicTemplateData.html'
    },
    dynamicPre: {
      preHTML: '<header>INLINE HEADER</header>',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicPre.html'
    },
    dynamicPost: {
      postHTML: '<footer>INLINE HEADER</footer>',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicPost.html'
    },
    allArray: {
      template: ['test/fixtures/deep/spanish.handlebars', 'test/fixtures/deep/deeper/portuguese.handlebars'],
      templateData: ['test/fixtures/deep/deeper/spanish.json', 'test/fixtures/deep/deeper/portuguese.json'],
      output: ['tmp/deep/spanish.html','tmp/deep/deeper/portuguese.html'],
      helpers: ['test/helpers/super_helper.js'],
      partials: ['test/fixtures/deep/shared/foo.handlebars']
   },
    globbedTemplateAndOutput: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.json',
      output: 'tmp/deep/**/*.html'
    },
    globalJsonGlobbedTemplate: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.json',
      output: 'tmp/deep/**/*.html',
      helpers: 'test/helpers/**/*.js',
      partials: 'test/fixtures/deep/shared/**/*.handlebars',
      globals: [
        'test/globals/info.json',
        'test/globals/textspec.json'
      ]
    }
}
```

The available configuration options are as follows

Unless otherwise noted, all configurable values can be represented as
* a string representing the path to a specific file
* a string representing the path to a [globbed representation](http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#globbing-patterns) of the files, matched up against the values resolved from the `template` configuration
* an array of literal paths, globbed paths, or a combination of the two

__`template`__ - The template fed to handlebars. In addition to the normal configurable values, it can also be an inline string representation of a template (e.g. raw html and handlebars).

__`preHTML`__ - Static text to be inserted before the compiled template
__`postHTML`__ - Static text to be inserted after the compiled template

__`templateData` ~~ The data being fed to compiled template, in addition to the normal configurable values, this can be
* an inline string representation of a data (I don't know why you would do that though, when you can do...)
* an inline JSON representation of a data

__`output`__ - the file(s) that handlebars saves the files to. This can be
* a string representing the path to a specific file
* a string representing the path to a [globbed representation](http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#globbing-patterns) of the files.
* an array of literal paths, globbed paths, or a combination of the two

__`globals`__ - globals that can be included, useful for when you have template specific data, but want some data available to all templates
__`helpers`__ - handlebars helpers
__`partials`__ - handlebars partials

__`registerFullPath`__ - normally, helpers and partials are registered under their basename, rather than their path (e.g. partial at `partials/deep/awesomePartial.handlebars` is registered as `{{> awesomePartial}}`). When set to `true`, helpers and partials are registered under their full paths (e.g. {{> partials/deep/awesomePartial}}), to prevent clobbering after resolving globbed values.

__`outputInInput`__ - most of the time, you define your handlebars files in one directory, and want them to be outputted into another directory. However, when you glob your all your files (`./**/*.handlebars`) this just outputs all your files to your root directory. In this case, you can add the boolean `outputInInput` to the configuration, which will output the globbed html into the same folders that the handlebar files are found. e.g, given the following configuraiton

```
  gottaGlobEmAll: {
    template: "./**/*.handlebars",
    templateData: {},
    output: "./**/*.html"
  }
```

`./foo/bar.handlebars` would output to `./bar.html`. By adding `outputInInput: true` to the configuration, it will output to `./foo/bar.html`

#### A note on globing

When you specify templates using globs, the values from `template` are used to create the values for output, for example, if your file structure looks like this

```
|-foo
  |-bar.handlebars
  |-baz.handlebars
  |-bar.json
  |-baz.json
```

and your configuration looks like this

```JSON
{
  "template": "./foo/*.handlebars",
  "templateData": "./foo/*.json",
  "output":  "./foo/*.html"
}
```

the output would be `./foo/bar.html` and `./foo/baz.html`


### Why
I had to work with several hundred repeated data structures that never changed. Keeping them all in html was silly, but pushing out a template engine for the end user to compile the same information multiple times was even sillier. This allows you to have your templated cake and eat it too.

## Release History
 * 0.7.8 - Eli - add `outputInInput` setting to send outputted files back to their handlebars directory
 * 0.7.7 - Uzi - swap out `JSON.parse` for `alce.parse`, allowing for (technically invalid) single quoted json
 * 0.7.6 - Kristofferson - explicitly check that `isGlob` is undefined, preventing a false negative on empty strings
 * 0.7.5 - Redford - add `registerFullPath` option to prevent partial/helper registration clobbering, update README
 * 0.7.4 - M. Jean - don't send objects to handlebars.compile, code cleanup
 * 0.7.3 - Cousin Ben - switch from require to readFile to allow for html in partials
 * 0.7.2 - Bernice - @stimmins improved handling of templateData and globals
 * 0.7.1 - Margaret - fix 0.8 compatibility
 * 0.7.0 - Rosemary - Allow for arrays instead of globbing, remove depreicated grunt methods
 * 0.6.3 - Pelé  - @mattcg fixed an issue with large amounts of templates
 * 0.6.2 - Dignan  - @goette added support for a global json config
 * 0.6.1 - Grace  - @robinqu added support for handlebars partials
 * 0.6.0 - Future Man - added globbing, lots more test
 * 0.4.0 - Oseary - upgraded to grunt 0.4, removed extra tasks, added tests
 * 0.0.2 - Inez - changed to grunt's native json parser (thanks to @sebslomski). Updated Readme
 * 0.0.1 - Dudley - Initial commit

## License
Copyright (c) 2014 Patrick Kettner
Licensed under the MIT license.

Commit message:

fix the ability to bring your own handlebars
fixes #35

README.md, after:

# grunt-compile-handlebars [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/patrickkettner/grunt-compile-handlebars.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/patrickkettner/grunt-compile-handlebars)

Compiles handlebar templates, outputs static HTML

## Getting Started
Install this grunt plugin next to your project's [grunt.js gruntfile][getting_started] with: `npm install grunt-compile-handlebars`

Then add this line to your project's `Gruntfile.js` gruntfile:

```javascript
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-compile-handlebars');
```

[grunt]: https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt
[getting_started]: https://github.com/gruntjs/grunt/blob/master/docs/getting_started.md

## Documentation
### Who
patrick kettner - a web developer who consistently worked with large static data sets.

### What
grunt-compile-handlebars takes in a handlebars template (and optionally static pre and post html), runs a dataset over it, and outputs static html.

### Where
inside of a grunt task. I assume you know what gruntjs is, but if not - [gruntjs.com](http://gruntjs.com)

### When
You have ton of data that rarely changes that you want to template.

### How
There are a lot of different ways to input data, it accepts most any dynamic and static
input.
Heres a few of the ways you can use it

```javascript
'compile-handlebars': {
    allStatic: {
      preHTML: 'test/fixtures/pre-dev.html',
      postHTML: 'test/fixtures/post-dev.html',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/allStatic.html'
    },
    dynamicTemplate: {
      template: '<h1>{{salutation}}{{punctuation}} {{location}}</h1>',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicTemplate.html'
    },
    dynamicTemplateData: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: {
          "salutation": "Hallo",
          "punctuation": ",",
          "location": "Welt"
      },
      output: 'tmp/dynamicTemplateData.html'
    },
    dynamicPre: {
      preHTML: '<header>INLINE HEADER</header>',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicPre.html'
    },
    dynamicPost: {
      postHTML: '<footer>INLINE HEADER</footer>',
      template: 'test/fixtures/template.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicPost.html'
    },
    allArray: {
      template: ['test/fixtures/deep/spanish.handlebars', 'test/fixtures/deep/deeper/portuguese.handlebars'],
      templateData: ['test/fixtures/deep/deeper/spanish.json', 'test/fixtures/deep/deeper/portuguese.json'],
      output: ['tmp/deep/spanish.html','tmp/deep/deeper/portuguese.html'],
      helpers: ['test/helpers/super_helper.js'],
      partials: ['test/fixtures/deep/shared/foo.handlebars']
   },
    globbedTemplateAndOutput: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.json',
      output: 'tmp/deep/**/*.html'
    },
    globalJsonGlobbedTemplate: {
      template: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.handlebars',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/deep/**/*.json',
      output: 'tmp/deep/**/*.html',
      helpers: 'test/helpers/**/*.js',
      partials: 'test/fixtures/deep/shared/**/*.handlebars',
      globals: [
        'test/globals/info.json',
        'test/globals/textspec.json'
      ]
    },
    customHandlebars: {
      template: '<h1>{{salutation}}{{punctuation}} {{location}}</h1>',
      templateData: 'test/fixtures/data.json',
      output: 'tmp/dynamicTemplate.html',
      handlebars: 'node_modules/handlebars'
    },
}
```

The available configuration options are as follows

Unless otherwise noted, all configurable values can be represented as
* a string representing the path to a specific file
* a string representing the path to a [globbed representation](http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#globbing-patterns) of the files, matched up against the values resolved from the `template` configuration
* an array of literal paths, globbed paths, or a combination of the two

__`template`__ - The template fed to handlebars. In addition to the normal configurable values, it can also be an inline string representation of a template (e.g. raw html and handlebars).

__`preHTML`__ - Static text to be inserted before the compiled template
__`postHTML`__ - Static text to be inserted after the compiled template

__`templateData` ~~ The data being fed to compiled template, in addition to the normal configurable values, this can be
* an inline string representation of a data (I don't know why you would do that though, when you can do...)
* an inline JSON representation of a data

__`output`__ - the file(s) that handlebars saves the files to. This can be
* a string representing the path to a specific file
* a string representing the path to a [globbed representation](http://gruntjs.com/api/grunt.file#globbing-patterns) of the files.
* an array of literal paths, globbed paths, or a combination of the two

__`globals`__ - globals that can be included, useful for when you have template specific data, but want some data available to all templates
__`helpers`__ - handlebars helpers
__`partials`__ - handlebars partials

__`registerFullPath`__ - normally, helpers and partials are registered under their basename, rather than their path (e.g. partial at `partials/deep/awesomePartial.handlebars` is registered as `{{> awesomePartial}}`). When set to `true`, helpers and partials are registered under their full paths (e.g. {{> partials/deep/awesomePartial}}), to prevent clobbering after resolving globbed values.

__`outputInInput`__ - most of the time, you define your handlebars files in one directory, and want them to be outputted into another directory. However, when you glob your all your files (`./**/*.handlebars`) this just outputs all your files to your root directory. In this case, you can add the boolean `outputInInput` to the configuration, which will output the globbed html into the same folders that the handlebar files are found. e.g, given the following configuraiton

```
  gottaGlobEmAll: {
    template: "./**/*.handlebars",
    templateData: {},
    output: "./**/*.html"
  }
```

`./foo/bar.handlebars` would output to `./bar.html`. By adding `outputInInput: true` to the configuration, it will output to `./foo/bar.html`

`handlebars` - a string representing the path to an instance of handlebars (if you don't want to use the bundeled version).
Note: This __cannot__ be `require('handlebars')`, as that creates a circular reference. You need to pass the path to the instance you want to use, i.e. `handlebars: "./node_modules/handlebars"`

#### A note on globing

When you specify templates using globs, the values from `template` are used to create the values for output, for example, if your file structure looks like this

```
|-foo
  |-bar.handlebars
  |-baz.handlebars
  |-bar.json
  |-baz.json
```

and your configuration looks like this

```JSON
{
  "template": "./foo/*.handlebars",
  "templateData": "./foo/*.json",
  "output":  "./foo/*.html"
}
```

the output would be `./foo/bar.html` and `./foo/baz.html`


### Why
I had to work with several hundred repeated data structures that never changed. Keeping them all in html was silly, but pushing out a template engine for the end user to compile the same information multiple times was even sillier. This allows you to have your templated cake and eat it too.

## Release History
 * 0.7.8 - Eli - add `outputInInput` setting to send outputted files back to their handlebars directory
 * 0.7.7 - Uzi - swap out `JSON.parse` for `alce.parse`, allowing for (technically invalid) single quoted json
 * 0.7.6 - Kristofferson - explicitly check that `isGlob` is undefined, preventing a false negative on empty strings
 * 0.7.5 - Redford - add `registerFullPath` option to prevent partial/helper registration clobbering, update README
 * 0.7.4 - M. Jean - don't send objects to handlebars.compile, code cleanup
 * 0.7.3 - Cousin Ben - switch from require to readFile to allow for html in partials
 * 0.7.2 - Bernice - @stimmins improved handling of templateData and globals
 * 0.7.1 - Margaret - fix 0.8 compatibility
 * 0.7.0 - Rosemary - Allow for arrays instead of globbing, remove depreicated grunt methods
 * 0.6.3 - Pelé  - @mattcg fixed an issue with large amounts of templates
 * 0.6.2 - Dignan  - @goette added support for a global json config
 * 0.6.1 - Grace  - @robinqu added support for handlebars partials
 * 0.6.0 - Future Man - added globbing, lots more test
 * 0.4.0 - Oseary - upgraded to grunt 0.4, removed extra tasks, added tests
 * 0.0.2 - Inez - changed to grunt's native json parser (thanks to @sebslomski). Updated Readme
 * 0.0.1 - Dudley - Initial commit

## License
Copyright (c) 2014 Patrick Kettner
Licensed under the MIT license.
